Well, now that I've told you all of
this information, let's apply it.
Let's do some testing.
So we have our first exercise.
Our first exercise is to try and
navigate a screen reader.
So here in class, I'll do this so
that we can do it together.
And I'm gonna turn on the screen reader,
so you'll get to hear Voiceover.
We have this Book A Trip form mimicked
after one on an airline website.
And so this was built with React.
I can change it from one way to two way,
[LAUGH] a return trip.
Pretty simple form, and
has the default browser date pickers.
So we can see how accessible
the default date pickers are.
There's also this little children
widget that has buttons to, like if you
were gonna fly with 12 kids, [LAUGH] just
figuring out what my maximum should be or,
yeah, 12 children, you could really
choose chaos and fly with 12 children.
But this Adults drop-down is a native HTML
select element, so we can play with that.
And there's a couple images down
here just to get us inspired for
adventure travel up the North Cascades
a couple of months ago and Hawaii.
That just sounds so nice, warmer weather.
So let's open this up with VoiceOver.
So I'm on a Mac computer.
So to open up VoiceOver,
I will hold my function key first.
If you have a desktop keyboard,
you won't have a function key, but
on a Mac laptop,
it would be Function+Command+F5.
>> Navigation, visited link.
Heading level 1, web accessibility V3,
current item, visited link, all topics.
Search documentation,
search text field link.
Command K link.
>> So at any time, a little bit of
a navigation tip when you're running
VoiceOver, is that to get it to stop
reading, you can press the Ctrl key, so
especially when you're talking [LAUGH]
the same time, it can be pretty helpful.
You can also click on the page to kind
of get to an area that you wanna test so
you don't have to navigate
through the whole thing.
Cuz I want us to focus on this Book a Trip
form whereas there are a ton of other
elements on the page for
the slide which Materials.
So I'm gonna click closer to this form.
I could even click on-
>> Level one, link, permalink for
this section, main,
you are currently on a link.
>> So my first key that I
often use is the tab key.
Let's hit tab, see what happens.
>> One way, on check, checkbox,
book a flight, group, check, one way.
>> So if I hit the spacebar
>> Bar,
I can toggle that element
depending on what element it is,
what type of role, and
keyboard accessibility it has.
>> Use miles on check checkbox.
[CROSSTALK]
>> And so the tab key, however,
is not the only way to navigate.
So from that cheat sheet, I reference
Myself this morning to remember,
there are the voiceover keys,
which are Control and Option.
And if I do Control, Option,
right arrow, I can go to the next item,
whatever that item happens to be.
>> From,
you are currently on a text element.
From, edit text.
You are to,
you are currently on a text element.
Edit text, blank.
Departure, departure date, edit text,
you are currently on an edit text.
To enter the state field
press ctrl option shift down
arrow 0 3 you are currently
on a stepper inside minus
0 to 2024 you end of text so,
>> I can use arrow keys I can type I can
do all kinda things in here.
So depending on what type of element
it is, so if it's a text field,
if it's an image, if it's a heading,
it will announce that type of element.
So that's relevant.
If things are labeled or not,
that will also be part of it.
So this form field from,
you are currently on
a textile Element is labeled.
If I go down further to images.
>> Edittext.
Edittext.
Imageseditxt, lelevel one visited l,
Other assistive technologies.
characteralett, close b Chrome.
Screened major is a dirt path next to
a small lake with fall colors of red,
yellow and green.
The sky is blue with wispy high clouds,
image.
You are currently on the image.
>> So there's some alt text.
So it's fun to navigate around.
You can play with the screen reader,
and then we'll come back.
We were testing with VoiceOver on the Mac.
There was one more part of
it that I wanted to show you
just before we get going.
So I'm gonna fire VoiceOver back
up with function Command F5.
>> Navigation, visited,
link, heading level one.
>> There is a feature in VoiceOver called
the rotor that you should know about.
It is a tool that I use quite often.
So VoiceOver, I'd say I test it
maybe like a couple times a week,
if I'm actively developing
a user interface.
Maybe not every single
time I go to test it, but
I do test it regularly to
check out specific things.
If I'm working on a form or something
that I want to know what's going on.
So with the rotor,
I can open it with the VoiceOver
keys which are Control+Option and U.
>> The links menu, on item, all topics.
>> So the rotor is configurable
in your VoiceOver utility and
it will list out everything
that's on the page.
So we're looking at links right now.
This is showing everything on this
whole workshop resources site,
what's on the current page.
If I use the left and right arrow keys, I
can go through different types of groups.
>> Landmarks menu, on item complementary.
>> So the landmarks, and I can arrow up or
down to have it highlight those tings.
And then if I hit the Enter key,
it would take me to that element.
>> Table of contents navigation.
Form Controls menu,
on item Search documentation.
Search, text, feel, blank,
>> All the form controls
>> Headings menu, on item, 1,
>> All the headings.
So this one's pretty useful.
Which headings are on the page?
What number do they have?
So that 1, 2, those are the heading
levels, so an h1 or an h2.
And it can be pretty useful to see what
is VoiceOver picking up on our page.
And so as developers, there's a bit
of a learning curve, I would say.
You could see I'm not super
proficient with VoiceOver, but
I do test it to be become more familiar.
I reference those cheat sheets and
I use the rotor.
It is super helpful to be able
to look at things at a glance.
>> Buttons menu.
On item Introduction, button, group.
>> So to get out of the rotor, I'll hit
Escape, and then I can turn VoiceOver off.
>> You are currently on the link,
VoiceOver off.
That little x,
often the quickest way to turn it off.
You can also use the same command of
the function Cmd+F5 to turn it off.
So the rotor I wanted to show
to you before we move on,
just because of what a helpful tool it is.
Sometimes it can be effective at
communicating with your colleagues, like,
no, we really do need to
make these changes, [LAUGH].
And if you can show them what's
happening in the screen reader somehow,
that can be useful.